---
layout: post
date: 2013-03-17
title: Rest In Peace, Google Reader
categories: rant
published: false
---

*Thoughts on the life and death of Google Reader*

So for my first blog entry, I guess I’ll talk about something that’s been super huge in the (tech) news lately: the end of Google Reader. On Wednesday, Google announced that Google Reader was closing shop, and that we, the users, would have until July 1st to find another home for our RSS needs. The reasons for this were due to the decline of usage of Google Reader and the fact that Google is trying to consolidate its products. The irony of the situation is that even though the number of users might be decreasing below what Google deems necessary to keep a product alive, that small user base is almost completely populated with tech nerds and the like, who are probably some of the most outspoken people on the Internet and are exactly the type of people that will go out and create websites and petitions to attempt to bring back a service they love. 

Yeah, I’ll say it, I love Google Reader (as much as one can love an online service anyway). But seriously, using Google Reader has literally changed my life (although it is probably more accurate to say that discovering RSS feeds in general changed my life). Prior to this discovery, I would have to go to each individual website that produced daily content that I enjoyed consuming. It was an extremely inefficient process but discovering Google Reader let me consolidate all of these content sources into one simply repository. Yeah, I’m aware that this isn’t exactly unique to Google Reader, but Google Reader simply had it right in a way that none of the alternatives did, in my opinion. From the design, to the layout, to the functionality, it was just a great service that thousands will definitely miss. Google Reader let me to create an extremely efficient, streamlined workflow that allowed to me simply power through all of the hundreds of articles that would appear daily so I could find the interesting content I was after. 

The two Google Reader features that let me achieve my perfect workflow are actually fairly simple: the ability to remove all images and just see the headers/titles, and kick-ass keyboard shortcuts. Now since I bet you’re really interested, I’ll give you a key-for-key walkthrough of how I used to process content with Google Reader.

First, once the page loaded, I use the Shift+n/p shortcuts to get to the top subscription folder. A quick Shift+x later, the folder would open up so I could use Shift+n/p to scroll to the particular source I wanted and use Shift+o to open it up and view the articles. Alternatively I could simply Shift+o on the entire folder and view all the articles from all the sources contained in it, which is okay if those sources don’t generate too much content. Once I’ve selected and opened a particular source, I use n/p to scroll through the list without actually opening the articles, which is what scrolling using j/k does. I find this absolutely crucial for plowing through huge numbers of articles. When I do find an article I’m interested in, I tap v to open the article in a new tab. One annoyance about Google Reader was that by default, pressing v would actually switch to the opened tab, interrupting my workflow. Luckily I was able to download a Chrome extension that would force Google Reader to open the article in a background tab when v was pressed. Using this strategy I would quickly be able to plow through hundreds of articles, only opening the ones I was interested in the background. Once I’d reached the end of a source, I’d hit Shift+a to mark everything in the source as read. Then I’d Shift+n/p into the next source and do the same. Rinse, repeat through all of the other folders/sources. 

This worked amazingly well for me. It was efficient, and I never had to touch the mouse at all. In addition to the functionality, I really liked the design of Google Reader. It was simple, looked good and worked. Period.

But as awesome as this system was, nothing good lasts forever and of course Google announced the future death of Reader, which caused me and several thousand other tech nerds to scramble looking for alternatives. I’ve yet to find an adequate replacement for Google Reader, but the closest I’ve found so far is probably a service called Feedly. It has a really attractive design (albeit a bit cluttered) and has options for line view (yes!) as well as keyboard shortcuts (yes!). When I first discovered this, I thought I’d found my replacement. Then I realized how you couldn’t set Feedly to line view by default, and how utterly bad the shortcuts are in comparison to Google Reader. Bummer.

I’m sure as I type, there are developers out there working to create a Reader alternative just as awesome as Google Reader was, and I sincerely hope that it emerges before July 1st. Until then, I will cherish these last few months that I have with literally one of the greatest online services I’ve ever used.
